“I don't want to deny who I've been. Because even my failures are a part of who I am today” — To Rintaro Okabe.
“Something must be wrong for you to use my actual name.” — To Okabe.
“I am a scientist, I have to act on my own theory. I can't let my emotions get in the way. But it's impossible to forget everything... because I've known you for longer than we've lived. This is reality. This is the world. This is...”
“People's feelings are memories that transcend time.”
“Say it right, Hououin Pervert-Kyouma!” — To Okabe.
“Who'll eat a pervert's banana anyway?” — To Okabe.
“It looks like you're both perverts.” — To Okabe & Itaru Hashida.
“There was a scientific rationale for that! Because... important memories, including, but not limited to, one's first kiss, are stored in the hippocampus, which makes them harder to forget.” — Kurisu after kissing Okabe.
“Time is passing so quickly. Right now, I feel like complaining to Einstein. Whether time is slow or fast depends on perception. Relativity theory is so romantic. And so sad.” — Kurisu after kissing Okabe twice.
“I've only lived 18 years, but I don't want to change any of them. They're all part of my life, even the failures.”
“You've pretty much figured it all out by now, right? That there is no absolute justice in this world. The opposite of justice is... another justice. Choosing the past through Time Leaps is just choosing between these justices. Can you say that your justice is correct?” — To Okabe at Mayuri Shiina's grave.[3]
“99.9% of science is boring.” — Kurisu's response to Rintaro's lack of interest to proceed with mundane tasks with the PhoneWave (name subject to change).
“Shut up! I stopped wearing teddie bear panties a few years ago!...Ah!”
"I'm kind of nervous, since this is my first time doing this, so I would greatly appreciate it if you overlook my blunders."
"This time, I've been told to talk about the subject of time machines. It’s not really my area of expertise, but I will give it my best."
"If I were to begin with the conclusion, I would say that time machines are a completely absurd concept."
"Fueh?!"
"But before that, allow me to speak my thoughts on this."
"However, each of these theories are nothing more than hypotheses. Some of them even deny the possibility of others."
"Then it would be denied by the 13th theory!"
"By the way, time travel to the future is available right now, according to the theory of relativity. For example, if a person was to go to the Haneda airport and board a plane heading towards Okinawa, he, upon arriving at the destination, would be about one hundred millionth of a second in the future from me. The theory of relativity states that the time of an object slows down as the speed of said object approaches the speed of light.
To give another example, if one was to run close to the speed of light, the time that affects that person would only be half of the time that affects us.
Calling me by name... Even though I just decided to restrain myself, it looks like Makise Kurisu wants to pick a fight with me.
"You can even go into the past right now. Peek at the sky at night with a telescope. You can see light from tens of thousands of years ago, can't you?
Well, what I've said until now has been an introduction. Practically, for example, let's think about the first thing necessary to make a time machine that could physically move someone to the past or future.
Let's consider the cosmic string theory and the wormhole theory. A cosmic string is a cord-shaped 'crevice' which has an extremely large mass."
"Since it has extremely large mass, it has the ability to distort space-time. If you were to attempt a full rotation within that distortion in the cosmic string, you might rotate less than 360 degrees. In other words, you are able to do something resembling a warp... this is called space-time angle deficit. Due to the loss of angle, if an object was to pass through the area with angle deficit, the time passing for that object would become 0.
By applying this, and assuming that a cosmic string moves at a speed close to the speed of light... according to the theory of relativity, the time of the cosmic string becomes slower than the time of the surroundings. Passing through the distorted angle deficit would make the time passage, which was originally 0, become negative. So, with the use of 2 cosmic strings, a space deficit jump can occur. If an object was to travel within that space deficit towards one location and then back to the original spot, it would return at the same time at which it entered."
"1: Cosmic strings, 2 of them. They are hypothesized to only exist in the space where the universe was first formed, so they might be a little hard to find.
2: Even if you successfully find them, you would need energy that would make them move at a speed close to the speed of light."
"3: A space-ship that would be able to travel towards the location of the cosmic strings and back. What do you think, Hououin? Would you like to attempt cosmic string based time travel?"
There's no way I can do that. And why the hell is she addressing me?
"Hm? Looks like Hououin is not willing to try out the cosmic string theory."
"Yes, that's right."
 "However, super gravity is active within that tunnel, so an object would be completely crushed upon entering it. That's why we need something that would negate the effects of gravity. That is something called 'exotic matter'.
It's basically material which has negative mass and opposes the effects of gravity."
 "With the use of exotic matter, the wormhole would be stabilized and allow the possibility of teleportation. However, there's another step required if you want to use them for time travel.
Imagine the entrance to the wormhole is in Akihabara, while the exit is in LA. Now, imagine the hole in LA goes to and back from the end of the universe at close to the speed of light. According to the theory of relativity, time slows down for objects moving at the speed of light. So, we can assume that the hole which returned to LA would be in the past.
And with those conditions, Hououin can enter the wormhole, and arrive at the LA of several years ago."
 "...And Hououin would appear at the Akihabara of the same time period at which he entered the wormhole from LA's side. With this, the time travel is complete.
The things necessary for wormhole theory are easier to obtain than the ones for cosmic string theory.
1: The wormhole itself. Nobody has ever seen one.
2: The energy required to move a wormhole to and from the end of the universe at a speed close to the speed of light.
3: The exotic matter necessary to stabilize the wormhole. Nobody has ever seen this, either."
 "All of the time travel theories are nothing but thought experiments which will never actually advance beyond the area of theory and be put into practice. That is the limit we have with present-day physics. Though, I don't know how it will be after ten years.
And anyway, even if a method which allows easy travel to the past appeared, it would not be guaranteed that it's completely safe. That is due to problems concerning the principle of causality."

 "If you think that the law of conservation of mass only applies to macro-systems like the universe or micro-systems like atoms, you're mistaken. The law only applies to chemical reactions, and it's not being considered in modern physics at all. Something can be created out of nothing."
 "Time paradoxes; specifically, the Grandfather Paradox."
 "As long as this paradox does not have a proper solution, time travel is definitely not a possibility. The appearance of a contradiction would mean the collapse of the principle of causality, the crumble of the theory of relativity, and even the breakdown of all the laws of physics.
A paradox is a thought experiment, not something that can or does happen in reality. That means that even if something has only a 0.000001% chance of happening, it will never diverge from the original outcome. There might be loopholes like the multiverse interpretation and the principle of self non-contradiction, but personally, I find them too fantasy-like, so I would like to disregard them."











